docs: changelog-2025-10-03 (#3997)
neondatabase/website: content/changelog/2025-10-03.md

### SQL-to-PostgREST converter tool

We've added a new converter tool to help you translate existing SQL queries into PostgREST syntax. Useful for developers migrating from direct SQL queries or learning PostgREST patterns.

![sql to postgrest converter](/docs/changelog/sql_postgrest_converter.png)

Try the converter [here](/docs/data-api/sql-to-rest).

### Rust-based architecture for better performance

We've rebuilt the Data API from the ground up in Rust while maintaining 100% PostgREST compatibility. This new architecture delivers better performance, multi-tenancy support, and improved resource efficiency, while maintaining the same PostgREST API.

Learn more in our [Data API docs](/docs/data-api/get-started) or read about the architectural improvements in our [blog post](https://neon.com/blog/a-postgrest-compatible-data-api-now-on-neon).

## Neon Launchpad updates

We've shipped several improvements to [Neon Launchpad](/docs/reference/neon-launchpad) — our tool for instant Postgres database provisioning without configuration or account creation.

- **Streamlined CLI**: The `npx neondb` command now runs entirely in your terminal with no browser interaction or CAPTCHA required.

> - **New claim command**: We added a `neondb claim` command that launches the claim URL in your browser. This command looks for the `PUBLIC_NEON_LAUNCHPAD_CLAIM_URL` environment variable by default.

Author: ```suggestion
- **New claim command**: We added a `neondb claim` command that launches the claim URL in your browser, letting you easily claim the database to your Neon account if you want to keep it.
```
